# Tomato-Leaf-Detection---CNN
A SEQUENTIAL CONVOLUTIONAL NEURAL NETWORK FOR DETECTING TOMATO (Solanum Lycopersicum L.) FOLIAR DISEASES

FAO estimates that annually between 20 to 40 percent of global crop production are lost to pests. Each year, plant diseases cost the global economy around $220 billion, and invasive insects around US$70 billion. Small-scale tomato growers, especially in the rural areas of the Philippines, might not afford to hire specialists and have no immediate access to assistance at the onset of disease in their crops; they would rather investigate the symptoms and attempt to treat the crops’ ailments by themselves. These farmers lack proper knowledge in entomology and phytopathology of tomato, they can only draw subjective judgments based on experience and confront the problem through trial and error, which can be quite cumbersome and ineffective. When the treatment is handled erroneously, the disease could spread further and damages to the crops would worsen. The objective of this study is to help small scale farmers in diagnosing the disease ravaging their fields. This study aims to realistically apply deep learning, particularly the sequential convolutional neural network, in detecting tomato foliage diseases. The experimental findings are hoped to contribute to the development of practical systems or mobile applications that is focused on the diagnosis of tomato diseases, regardless of tomato cultivar and variety. This will benefit both small-scale and commercial tomato growers in the Philippines to improve their pest and disease management.
